Update CDN mirror docs (#3399)
alphagov/govuk-developer-docs: source/manual/fall-back-to-mirror.html.md

---
owner_slack: "#govuk-2ndline"
title: GOV.UK CDN static mirrors
section: Deployment
layout: manual_layout
parent: "/manual.html"
---

GOV.UK uses the [Fastly content delivery network (CDN)](/manual/cdn.html) to handle most requests to [GOV.UK Origin](/manual/architecture-shallow-dive.html#a-user-visits-the-gov-uk-homepage). However, user requests will not get to Fastly in the following scenarios:

> 
> - first and most commonly, user requests to GOV.UK may time out or return an error response
> - second, if Fastly goes down, user requests to Fastly will fail with a 5xx error code (the problem was caused by the server)
> 
> When user requests to GOV.UK time out or return an error response, these requests instead go to a static copy of GOV.UK known as the GOV.UK mirror.
> 
> If Fastly has gone down, we [manually fall back to AWS CloudFront](/manual/fall-back-to-aws-cloudfront.html), the backup CDN. AWS then sends user requests to the GOV.UK mirror.

Reviewer: Ah, I was sort of expecting this section to be changed a bit in light of https://github.com/alphagov/govuk-developer-docs/pull/3399#discussion_r796362313. Apologies if that wasn't clear.

It took me a while to figure out the purpose of these introductory paragraphs. I think it could be made clearer by becoming its own section:

```suggestion
The GOV.UK mirror is a static copy of GOV.UK.

## When is the static mirror used?

Most requests to GOV.UK are handled by the [Fastly content delivery network (CDN)](/manual/cdn.html), which sits between the user and [GOV.UK Origin](/manual/architecture-shallow-dive.html#a-user-visits-the-gov-uk-homepage). When a user requests a GOV.UK page, Fastly retrieves it from its cache, or fetches it from GOV.UK Origin if it does not have it in its cache.

Sometimes, GOV.UK Origin may time out or return a 5xx error response. When that happens, Fastly automatically fetches the page from the GOV.UK mirror instead.

Finally, if Fastly goes down, we'd need to manually [switch to AWS CloudFront](https://docs.publishing.service.gov.uk/manual/fall-back-to-aws-cloudfront.html) instead of Fastly. Where Fastly makes requests to GOV.UK Origin, AWS CloudFront instead makes all its requests to the static mirror.
```

We refer to 'GOV.UK mirror' and 'static mirror' interchangeably throughout this document. It might be best to stick with one (I usually hear it referred to as the latter, but might be worth making a Slack poll to gather a consensus from the developers).

## GOV.UK mirror locations and access

The GOV.UK mirror is a copy of GOV.UK hosted in an [Amazon Web Services (AWS) S3 bucket](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/userguide/Welcome.html). The bucket contains copies of GOV.UK HTML files. The mirror is static, meaning dynamic pages such as search pages will not work.

> There are 3 mirrors:

Reviewer: Might be worth calling this out:

```suggestion
Whilst "the static mirror" implies only one mirror, it collectively refers to 3 mirrors:
```

Not happy with my wording, but hopefully you see what I'm getting at!

Finally, a job is run in Google Cloud Storage (GCS) at 6:00pm the day after the original `govuk_seed_crawler`script is run. This job syncs the primary AWS S3 bucket `govuk-<environment>-mirror` to the GCS `govuk-<environment>-mirror` bucket. For more information on GCS, see the [Google Cloud Platform documentation](https://docs.publishing.service.gov.uk/manual/google-cloud-platform-gcp.html).

The `govuk_seed_crawler` and `govuk_crawler_worker` scripts are independent of the mirrors. Stopping these scripts stops the mirror updates, but does not stop the mirrors from working.

Run the following to inspect the contents of the GOV.UK mirrorer machine:

```
gds govuk connect -e production ssh mirrorer
cd /mnt/crawler_worker/www.gov.uk
```

## `Mirror GOV.UK content to S3` alert

If the `govuk_sync_mirror` cronjob has not succeeded for 24 hours, it triggers the ‘Mirror GOV.UK content to S3’ alert. See the [Mirror GOV.UK content to S3 alert documentation](/manual/alerts/mirror-sync.html) for more information.

## Forcing failover to the static mirrors

> If Origin is unavailable, Fastly will automatically retry every request against the mirrors. This means stopping [Nginx](https://www.nginx.com/) on the cache machines will result in user requests going to the mirror. To stop Nginx on the cache machines, run the following command:

Reviewer: Hmmm I've just noticed that there are two approaches to this in the dev docs - the one here, and the one described in https://docs.publishing.service.gov.uk/manual/fall-back-to-aws-cloudfront.html. I.e. switching to AWS CloudFront gives us the "failover to the static mirrors" behaviour, although it's a blunter tool than disabling Nginx on specific machines.

Given the fabric scripts are deprecated, switching to CloudFront is probably the preferred approach here. That said, that's only because AWS CloudFront currently only serves static content; there's nothing stopping us having AWS CloudFront making requests to GOV.UK Origin in future, for example. So this might only be a short term best practice:

```suggestion
If Origin is unavailable, Fastly will automatically retry every request against the mirrors. To avoid Fastly traffic hitting Origin while its down (potentially exacerbating its problems), we can [fall back to AWS CloudFront](/manual/fall-back-to-aws-cloudfront.html), which serves all content via the static mirrors.

Alternatively, we can stop [Nginx](https://www.nginx.com/) on the cache machines, which will prevent requests hitting GOV.UK applications. Fastly will automatically retry these failed requests against the mirror.

To stop Nginx on the cache machines, run the following command:
```

---
owner_slack: "#govuk-2ndline"
title: GOV.UK CDN static mirrors
section: Deployment
layout: manual_layout
parent: "/manual.html"
---

GOV.UK uses the Fastly content delivery network (CDN) to handle most requests to GOV.UK. When a user’s request first reaches the Fastly CDN, Fastly will check to see if it has a response for the request in its own cache.

If this is the first time the page has been requested, Fastly will:

- forward the request to the GOV.UK servers, otherwise known as Origin
- cache the response locally
- return the response to the user

Subsequent requests for the same resource will never hit the origin server, as long as Fastly keeps the response in its cache. Instead, Fastly will return what it has in its cache. This means that Fastly absorbs a lot of traffic and reduces the load on Origin.

> 

Reviewer 2: I think everything above here should be covered elsewhere (eg https://docs.publishing.service.gov.uk/manual/cdn.html). 

Otherwise there's a risk of duplication/diluting this page. It should only be about the mirror

Author: ok, will remove and add link to that page

---
owner_slack: "#govuk-2ndline"
title: GOV.UK CDN static mirrors
section: Deployment
layout: manual_layout
parent: "/manual.html"
---

GOV.UK uses the [Fastly content delivery network (CDN)](/manual/cdn.html) to handle most requests to [GOV.UK Origin](/manual/architecture-shallow-dive.html#a-user-visits-the-gov-uk-homepage). However, user requests will not get to Fastly in the following scenarios:

- first and most commonly, user requests to GOV.UK may time out or return an error response
- second, if Fastly goes down, user requests to Fastly will fail with a 5xx error code (the problem was caused by the server)

> When user requests cannot get to Fastly, those requests will instead go to a static copy of GOV.UK known as the GOV.UK mirror.

Reviewer: This isn't quite right. If Fastly goes down, no requests are ever going to reach any part of GOV.UK (i.e. neither the origin nor the mirror). We have to [manually fail over to AWS CloudFront](https://docs.publishing.service.gov.uk/manual/fall-back-to-aws-cloudfront.html) in such a scenario, so that user requests go to AWS rather than to Fastly. AWS will, in turn, make requests to the mirror.

Author: Thanks @ChrisBAshton. How about the following:

"When user requests to GOV.UK time out or return an error response, these requests instead go to a static copy of GOV.UK known as the GOV.UK mirror.

If Fastly has gone down, we [manually fall back to AWS CloudFront](/manual/fall-back-to-aws-cloudfront.html), the backup CDN. AWS will then send user requests to the GOV.UK mirror."

Every hour, the [`govuk_sync_mirror`](https://github.com/alphagov/govuk-puppet/blob/86d1480c6e081313c415246063d5931af24473da/modules/govuk_crawler/manifests/init.pp#L109) script runs on the mirrorer machine. This script copies the GOV.UK HTML files from the mirrorer machine to the main `govuk-<environment>-mirror` AWS S3 bucket. AWS then copies this main bucket to the replica `govuk-<environment>-mirror-replica` S3 bucket in another region.

Finally, every day at 6:00pm, a job is run in Google Cloud Storage (GCS) which syncs the primary AWS S3 bucket `govuk-<environment>-mirror` to the GCS `govuk-<environment>-mirror` bucket. For more information on GCS, see the [Google Cloud Platform documentation](https://docs.publishing.service.gov.uk/manual/google-cloud-platform-gcp.html).

The `govuk_seed_crawler` and `govuk_crawler_worker` scripts are independent of the mirrors. Stopping these scripts stops the mirror updates, but does not stop the mirrors from working.

Run the following to inspect the contents of the GOV.UK mirrorer machine:

```
gds govuk connect -e production ssh mirrorer
cd /mnt/crawler_worker/www.gov.uk
```

## “Mirror GOV.UK content to S3” alert

> If the govuk_sync_mirror cronjob has not succeeded for 24 hours, it triggers the “Mirror GOV.UK content to S3” alert. See the [Mirror GOV.UK content to S3 alert documentation](/manual/alerts/mirror-sync.html) for more information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the `govuk_sync_mirror` cronjob has not succeeded for 24 hours, it triggers the “Mirror GOV.UK content to S3” alert. See the [Mirror GOV.UK content to S3 alert documentation](/manual/alerts/mirror-sync.html) for more information.
```

Author: Whoops! thank you, will add to next commit

## Forcing failover to the static mirrors

> Because Fastly will retry every request against the mirrors automatically if Origin is unavailable, [stopping Nginx on the cache machines with Fabric][fab-fail] will result in user requests going to the mirror. Run the following command to stop Nginx on the cache machines:

Reviewer: We're no longer recommending Fabric as a tool, so this section will eventually need a small rewrite. That can happen after this PR though. @huwd is gradually working through the docs to remove references to Fabric.

Author: Sounds good, will leave for now

---
owner_slack: "#govuk-2ndline"
title: GOV.UK CDN static mirrors
section: Deployment
layout: manual_layout
parent: "/manual.html"
---

GOV.UK uses the [Fastly content delivery network (CDN)](/manual/cdn.html) to handle most requests to [GOV.UK Origin](/manual/architecture-shallow-dive.html#a-user-visits-the-gov-uk-homepage). However, there are 2 scenarios where the user requests will not get to Fastly.

First and most commonly, user requests to GOV.UK may time out or return an error response.

> Second, if Fastly goes down, user requests to Fastly will fail with a 5xx error code (the problem was caused by the server). GOV.UK servers will still be able to serve content to users, but user requests will not be able to get to those servers.

Reviewer 2: Small style thing, but should this be a numbered list (could help with scanning) and the sentence above ending with a `:`?

Author: In terms of style, we use numbered steps to guide a user through a process. I agree with your point re scanning, so perhaps an unordered list would help in this situation i.e.

"However, user requests will not get to Fastly in the following scenarios:

- first and most commonly, user requests to GOV.UK may time out or return an error response
- second, if Fastly goes down, user requests to Fastly will fail with a 5xx error code (the problem was caused by the server)"

@nicholsj how does that sound?
